---
title:  Participating in Continuing Education Courses
linktitle: Participating in Continuing Education Courses
toc: true
type: docs
date: "2021-01-15"
draft: false
menu:
  crit3:
    parent: Continuing Preparation and Study
    weight: 1

# Prev/next pager order (if `docs_section_pager` enabled in `params.toml`)
weight: 1
---

Over the last five years, I have completed six online courses (participating
continuing education courses and formal education/study--Appendix G of Master
Agreement). These courses cover a wide breadth of topics, including
functional programming, distributed computing, building client-server
applications, and finally, developing online and blended courses.

By the end of this section, you will see evidence of a substantial and formal
course of study, which impacts developing and updating curriculum in data
science.

## Completion of Online Courses in Data Science

I completed the first four courses to prepare for the development of three
new data science electives, a special topics course on functional distributed
programming in the spring semester of 2017, and two new electives approved
and implemented in 2018 and 2019.

#### Complete a Coursera Course on the Hadoop Platform

The [Hadoop framework](https://hadoop.apache.org) supports distributing the
storage and processing of vast quantities of data across many machines and
[many social media and tech
companies],(https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/HADOOP2/PoweredBy)
such as eBay, Facebook, and Twitter, make use of this platform. In
preparation for teaching a special topics course in the spring of 2017, I
completed a Coursera course on the Hadoop framework during the 2016 fall
term.

The curriculum for this course included an overview of the essential
components of the Hadoop framework and the basics of writing MapReduce and
Spark applications. Completing this course was a positive experience that
directly impacted the curriculum in STAT 489 and inspired the associated
textbook. This course also led me to learn the Spark SQL framework, and I
subsequently incorporated this framework in DSCI 430.

You can see the certificate of completion for this course by navigating this
[link](https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/certificate/QRTQKUPSZDRY).


#### Two Courses on Functional Programming in Scala

In anticipation of designing and implementing DSCI 430 Data Science at Scale,
I completed 2 Coursera courses during the 2017 summer break. The first
introduced functional programming in the Scala programming language, and the
second building on the first by teaching design principles in Scala. Spark,
the primary focus of DSCI 430, is written in Scala, and while this course
uses the Python bindings to Spark, it was still beneficial to learn about the
underpinnings of the framework. Below you will find the certificates for the
completion of each course.

-   [**Functional Programming Principles in
    Scala**](https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/certificate/FJSWZZK7DMF7)

-   [**Functional Program Design in
    Scala**](https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/certificate/JY34BG86VHC5)

#### Cleaning Data in Python

One of the topics covered in DSCI 430 Data Science at Scale is cleaning data.
To ensure that my understanding of cleaning data with Python was up-to-date,
I complete a [DataCamp](www.datacamp.com) course on this subject. The
completion of this course helped me formalize a step-by-step process for
cleaning data and introduced me to some effective techniques for online
courses. The certificate of completion is [available
here](testimonial/data_camp_data_cleaning.pdf).

#### Elixir—Developing with Elixir/OTP

In addition to building client-side educational application, like those
highlighted under [criterion 2]({{<ref "/criterion2/software.md" >}}). While
the Elm programming language is great for creating responsive modern
client-side applications, it requires an interface with another language when
creating client-server applications. 

During the 2019 fall semester, I started to gain the requisite knowledge to
build a server-side client by completing a [Pragmatic Studio course on
Elixir](https://pragmaticstudio.com/courses/elixir). Elixir is a language
built on top of Erlang and is tailor-built for the sorts of tasks completed
by a server-side client. In particular, I liked the actor model that was
employed and streamlined by Elixir.

Another benefit of completing a course like this is seeing the author’s
pedological approach to online learning. In this case, the couple who creates
the videos perform the lectures in tandem and switch off presenting topics,
timing the transitions when a topic changes or making a counterpoint. They
also had good transitions between showing them talking to the camera and
ptalking over a computer screen or terminal.

## Complete the WeTeach Courses on Teaching Online and Blended Courses

Over the last four summers, I had the opportunity to teach STAT 110 in the
online format. Then COVID happened. While I had sat in on the WeTeach course
in my first year at WSU, I thought it was time to revisit (and complete) this
course. This summer, I re-enrolled and completed the WeTeach course offered
by Minnesota State, which focused on the best practices for teaching online
and blended formats. I have fully completed the class (see the [attached
certificate](/testimonial/WeTeachCertificate.pdf)).

One of my takeaways from retaking this course was just how much the first
time had impacted my course development. WeTeach encourages extra
organization and communication with students, and I am happy to say that my
online courses meet these goals. On the flip side, taking the class
reinforced that I can improve my teaching by building better rubrics to
improve my expectations and feedback.

One of the goals of the WeTeach courses is to introduce the requirements for
certifying a course under Quality Matters and encourage faculty to apply for
this certification. I am in the process of setting up STAT 110 to meet the
expectations, and also plan to submit the DSCI 611 course that I am creating
for HLA for certification.