---
title: Assisting in the Scholarly Growth of Students
linktitle: Scholarly growth of students
toc: true
type: docs
date: "2021-01-15"
draft: false
menu:
  crit4:
    parent: Contributions to Student Growth and Development 
    weight: 2

# Prev/next pager order (if `docs_section_pager` enabled in `params.toml`)
weight: 2
---

One way to promote the scholarly growth of students is 
through out-of-the-classroom activities that accentuate their in-class learning.
Next, I will highlight two such activities: my work advising students
participating in data analytics competitions and a workshop that I developed
for the Women in Computer Science (WiCS) student organization.

## Advising MinneMUDAC and MUDAC competitors

{{< figure src="/img/MinneMUDAC16.png" title="**Figure 1.** Winona State students presented their finds at MinneMUDAC 2016, with one team winning the Serendipitous Discovery award.">}}

Starting in the 2016-2018 fall semesters, I have taken an active leadership
role in organizing and advising students competing in the MUDAC and
MinneMUDAC data analytics competitions. Participating in a data analytics
competition provides students a significant opportunity to apply what they
have learned while working on a real-world problem with a team of peers.

{{< figure src="/img/MinneMUDAC17.png" title="**Figure 2.** Five Winona State teams participated in MinneMUDAC 2017, winning the First Place Overall and Acumen awards.  Two other teams received an honorable mention. ">}}

At the start of each competition, I collaborated with Dr. Chris Malone to
organize meetings with the participants in the weeks leading up to the main
event. We held the gatherings once or twice a week and used the time to
prepare the competitions, particularly in two areas. First, we reviewed the
problem and techniques that the teams could use to answer the related
questions. Second, we spent time studying strategies for effectively
presenting the student's findings.

{{< figure src="/img/MUDAC18.png" title="**Figure 3.** Winona State teams participated in MUDAC 2018, a competition organized and administrated by WSU data science faculty, with one team  First Place Overall.">}}

These competitions have been a successful and meaningful experience for our
students, and many of the WSU teams performed well. For example, a WSU team
was placed in the top five in the MinneMUDAC 2016 competition's undergraduate
division and won the Serendipitous Discovery award (see **Figure 1**). The
following year saw even more success for WSU teams, with two teams winning
First Place Overall and the Acumen Award, respectively, and another two teams
receiving Honorable Mention in the MinneMUDAC 2017 competition (**Figure
2**). We saw similar success in the MUDAC 2018 competition with WSU teams
placing first, fourth, and eight in the overall competition (out of 36
teams), and our teams performed exceptionally well in the new prediction
accuracy portion of the competition, placing first, second, and sixth
(**Figure 3**).

Although our students deserve most of the credit, I would like to think that
organizing and administering the biweekly meetings contributed to our teams'
success and contributed to students' growth as statisticians and data
scientists. In addition to advising Winona State student teams and organizing
study sessions, I also helped organize and run the MUDAC 2016, MUDAC 2017,
and MUDAC 2018 competitions hosted here at Winona State, which contributed to
the growth of students from neighboring schools.


## WiCS Workshop on Web Scraping

{{< figure src="/img/WiCS_workshop.png" title="**Figure 1.** I presented a workshop, organized by the Women in Computer Science student organization, on web scraping with Python.">}}

During the 2018 spring semester, two former/current students asked me to
develop and present a workshop for the Women in Computer Science (WiCS)
students organization. I included material adapting from a pre-conference
workshop presented at the United States Conference on Teaching Statistics and
introduced the students to scraping the web with Python. About 55 students
attended the workshop, which ran for 2.5 hours. While I donâ€™t have formal
feedback from the participants, informal comments suggest that the workshop
was a success.
